.TH GENERATE-PYTHONSCAD-STLS 1 "July 2026" "pythonscad-stl-generator" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
generate-pythonscad-stls \- render PythonSCAD designs and customizer presets
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B generate-pythonscad-stls
[\fB--directory=\fR\fIDIR\fR] [\fB--output-dir=\fR\fIDIR\fR]
[\fB--pythonscad=\fR\fIPATH\fR] [\fB--format=\fR\fIEXT\fR]
[\fB--force\fR] [\fB--dry-run\fR] [\fB--recursive\fR]
[\fB-v\fR|\fB--verbose\fR]
.br
.B generate-pythonscad-stls
\fB-h\fR|\fB--help\fR
.br
.B generate-pythonscad-stls
\fB--version\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B generate-pythonscad-stls
scans a directory for Python files that import
.B pythonscad
and renders each detected design by invoking the PythonSCAD command line
application. It passes
.B --trust-python
automatically.
.PP
When a design has a sibling JSON file with a top-level
.B parameterSets
object, the design is rendered once for each named preset using PythonSCAD's
.B -p
and
.B -P
customizer options.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h, --help
Show help text.
.TP
.B --version
Show the program version.
.TP
.BI --directory= DIR
Directory to scan for PythonSCAD designs. Defaults to the current directory.
.TP
.BI --output-dir= DIR
Directory for generated output files. Relative paths are resolved below the
scan directory. Defaults to
.BR output .
.TP
.BI --pythonscad= PATH
PythonSCAD executable to run. Defaults to
.B pythonscad
from
.BR PATH .
.TP
.BI --format= EXT
Output file extension and PythonSCAD export format. Defaults to
.BR stl .
.TP
.B --force
Render even when output files are newer than their inputs.
.TP
.B --dry-run
Print render commands without executing them.
.TP
.B --recursive
Search for designs recursively below the scan directory.
.TP
.B -v, --verbose
Enable debug logging.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I design.py
PythonSCAD design script. The file is detected as a design when it imports
.BR pythonscad .
.TP
.I design.json
Optional customizer preset file with a top-level
.B parameterSets
object.
.SH EXAMPLES
.EX
generate-pythonscad-stls
.EE
.PP
.EX
generate-pythonscad-stls --dry-run --verbose
.EE
.PP
.EX
generate-pythonscad-stls --pythonscad ~/bin/pythonscad --output-dir stls
.EE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
All requested renders completed successfully, or no designs were found.
.TP
.B 2
Command line input, scan directory, or preset JSON was invalid.
.TP
.B other non-zero status from pythonscad
At least one render command failed; the PythonSCAD exit code is returned.
